faq: add faq for the inconsistent order of a SELECT statement without ORDER BY (#3851)
pingcap/docs: faq/sql-faq.md

See [System Variables](/system-variables.md).

> ## The order of records for a SELECT statement without ORDER BY clause is not as same as MySQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The order of records for a SELECT statement without ORDER BY clause is not as same as MySQL
```

> ## The order of records for a SELECT statement without ORDER BY clause is not as same as MySQL.
> 
> It's not a bug. The default order of records depends on various situation without any guarantee of consistency. 
> 
> The relevant text in the [SQL-92](http://www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/~shadow/sql/sql1992.txt) spec is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## The order of results is different from MySQL

Unless the query includes `ORDER BY` on a unique column (or set of columns), TiDB is not guaranteed to return results in the same order as MySQL.

This is legal according to SQL standards. The relevant text in the [SQL-92](http://www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/~shadow/sql/sql1992.txt) spec is
```

Reviewer 2: Technically it could still be ambiguous if there is an order by (non-distinct). I updated the text to handle this case.

Author: In fact, those are different aspects
1) Without `ORDER BY`, the order of a `SELECT` statement's results is inconsistent. This is what I want to explain in this FAQ
2) With an `ORDER BY`, the columns out of `ORDER BY`'s scops is inconsistent.

Case 2) could be an extra section to describe.

Author: I've updated my description to explain these two aspects separately. PTAL again.

> If an `<order by clause>` is not specified, then the table specified by the `<cursor specification>` is T and the ordering of rows in T is implementation-dependent.

>     

Reviewer 3: please remove the trailing white spaces.

Author: Then the next line would be quoted.

> If a query is intended to rely on its order for anything, a desired order using `ORDER BY` must be specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The order of results in MySQL may appear stable because queries are executed in a single thread. However, it's common that query plans can change when upgrading to new versions. It is recommended to use `ORDER BY` whenever an order of results is desired.
```

See [System Variables](/system-variables.md).

> ## The order of records for a `SELECT` statement without the `ORDER BY` clause is not as same as that in MySQL

Author: Users should be more concerned about the situation without `order by`.
In the case of having `order by`, the order of non-`order by` columns is inconsistent, and users are generally consciously acceptable.  So I want to emphasize the former in the title.

> ## The order of records for a `SELECT` statement without the `ORDER BY` clause is not as same as that in MySQL

Reviewer 2: It's just a bit long (and could apply to DELETE .. LIMIT / UPDATE .. LIMIT as well). Maybe:
```
## The order of results is different from MySQL when `ORDER BY` is omitted
```

> It's not a bug. The default order of records depends on various situation without any guarantee of consistency. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's not a bug. The default order of records depends on various situations without any guarantee of consistency. 
```

> The relevant text in the [SQL-92](http://www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/~shadow/sql/sql1992.txt) spec is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reference can be found in [ISO/IEC 9075:1992, Database Language SQL- July 30, 1992](http://www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/~shadow/sql/sql1992.txt), which states as follows:
```

> The relevant text in the [SQL-92](http://www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/~shadow/sql/sql1992.txt) spec is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unless the query includes `ORDER BY` on a unique column (or set of columns), TiDB is not guaranteed to return results in the same order as MySQL. This is legal according to SQL standards. The relevant text in the [SQL-92](http://www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/~shadow/sql/sql1992.txt) spec is:
```

> If an `<order by clause>` is not specified, then the table specified by the `<cursor specification>` is T and the ordering of rows in T is implementation-dependent.
    

> The order of results in MySQL may appear stable because queries are executed in a single thread. However, it's common that query plans can change when upgrading to new versions. It is recommended to use `ORDER BY` whenever an order of results is desired. If without an `ORDER BY`, the two examples below are both acceptable and correct for SQL standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order of results in MySQL might appear stable because queries are executed in a single thread. However, it is common that query plans can change when upgrading to new versions. It is recommended to use `ORDER BY` whenever an order of results is desired. If without an `ORDER BY`, the following two examples are both acceptable and correct for the SQL standard.
```

> The order of results in MySQL may appear stable because queries are executed in a single thread. However, it's common that query plans can change when upgrading to new versions. It is recommended to use `ORDER BY` whenever an order of results is desired. If without an `ORDER BY`, the two examples below are both acceptable and correct for SQL standard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The order of results in MySQL may appear stable because queries are executed in a single thread. However, it's common that query plans can change when upgrading to new versions. It is recommended to use `ORDER BY` whenever an order of results is desired.

Consider the following two examples which return results in a different order. Both are considered correct:
```

> ```mysql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sql
```

> The order of results in MySQL might appear stable because queries are executed in a single thread. However, it is common that query plans can change when upgrading to new versions. It is recommended to use `ORDER BY` whenever an order of results is desired. If without an `ORDER BY`, the following two examples are both acceptable and correct for SQL standard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The order of results in MySQL might appear stable because queries are executed in a single thread. However, it is common that query plans can change when upgrading to new versions. It is recommended to use `ORDER BY` whenever an order of results is desired.  In the following query, both results are considered legal:
```

Author: This paragraph is telling users about the `SELECT` statement without `ORDER BY`.
The next paragraph is telling about the `SELECT` statement with an `ORDER BY` but the columns are not unique.

Reviewer 2: The last sentence is just a little hard to parse. Maybe split the last line and use it as a new paragraph?

Author: PTAL again.

Reviewer 2: Much better, thx.

> select * from t;
+------+------+
| a    | b    |
+------+------+
|    2 |    1 |
|    2 |    2 |
+------+------+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> ```mysql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sql
```

> select * from t; -- the order of results is not guaranteed
+------+------+
| a    | b    |
+------+------+
|    2 |    2 |
|    2 |    1 |
+------+------+
2 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> Even with an `ORDER BY`, the order of the columns which is returned by a `SELECT` statement and not in `ODERY BY`'s scope is inconsistent. Unless the query includes `ORDER BY` on a unique column (or set of columns), TiDB is not guaranteed to return results in the same order as that in MySQL. The two examples below are both acceptable and correct for SQL standard.

Author: ```suggestion
Even with an `ORDER BY`, the order of the columns which is returned by a `SELECT` statement and not in `ODERY BY`'s scope is inconsistent. Unless the query includes `ORDER BY` on a unique column (or set of columns), TiDB is not guaranteed to return results in the same order as that in MySQL. The following two examples are both acceptable and correct for SQL standard.
```

> ```mysql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sql
```

> Even with an `ORDER BY`, the order of the columns which is returned by a `SELECT` statement and not in `ODERY BY`'s scope is inconsistent. Unless the query includes `ORDER BY` on a unique column (or set of columns), TiDB is not guaranteed to return results in the same order as that in MySQL. The following two examples are both acceptable and correct for SQL standard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A statement is also considered non-deterministic if the list of columns used in the `ORDER BY` is non-unique. In the following example, the column `a` has duplicate values. Thus, only `ORDER BY a, b` would be guaranteed deterministic:
```

> select * from t order by a;
+------+------+
| a    | b    |
+------+------+
|    1 |    1 |
|    2 |    1 |
|    2 |    2 |
+------+------+
3 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> ```mysql

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```sql
```

See [System Variables](/system-variables.md).

## The order of results is different from MySQL when `ORDER BY` is omitted

> It's not a bug. The default order of records depends on various situations without any guarantee of consistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is not a bug. The default order of records depends on various situations without any guarantee of consistency.
```
